NIST RMF process has 7 steps:

1. Prepare
2. Categorize
3. Select
4. Implement
5. Assess
6. Authorize
7. Monitor


*PREPARE* //Roles wali bakchodi to be addeds
    to carry out "essential activities" at organization mission and bussiness process and information system
    levels

TP1. Identify and assign roles
    INPUTS: Security privacy policy and procedures, organization charts
    OUTPUTS: Documented RMF role assignments

TP2. Risk Management Strategy   
    INPUTS:mission statements, policies, risk assumptions, constraints, priorities, tradeoffs
    OUTPUTS:rm Strategy and statements of risk tolerance inclusive of info security and privacy risk
 Risk tolerance is the degree of risk or uncertainty that is acceptable to an organization.
 Guides and informs risk-based decisions including how security and privacy risk is framed, assessed, responded to, and
 monitored.

 TP3. Risk Assessment
    INPUTS:memoranda of understanding, security and privacy information from continuous monitoring.
    OUTPUTS:risk assessment results.
 googleWaala{
      Step 1: Identify hazards, i.e. anything that may cause harm.
      Step 2: Decide who may be harmed, and how.
      Step 3: Assess the risks and take action.
      Step 4: Make a record of the findings.
      Step 4: Make a record of the findings.
 }   

 TP4. Organizationally-Tailored Control Baselines //optional
    INPUTS: Documented security and privacy requirements tailored to a particular organization.
    OUTPUTS: enterprise architecture, //An enterprise architecture (EA) is a conceptual blueprint that defines the structure and operation of an organization. The intent of an enterprise architecture is to determine how an organization can most effectively achieve its current and future objectives. 
             security architecture,
             privacy architecture.

COMMON CONTROL IDENTIFICATION //Common controls can be any type of security control or protective measures used to meet the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of your information system.
TP5. Identify, document, and publish organization wide used common controls that are available for inheritance
     by organizational system
     INPUTS:Documented security and privacy requirements
            existing common control providers and
            associated security and privacy plans
            information security and privacy program plans
            organization- and system-level security and privacy risk assessment results.
     OUTPUTS:List of common control providers
             and common controls available for inheritance?
 Common Controls are security controls whose implementation results in a security capability 
 that is inheritable  by multiple information systems (IS). 
 For example, the information systems hosted in a data center will typically inherit numerous security 
 controls from the hosting provider, such as:
    -Physical and environmental security controls
    -Network boundary defense security controls
 shared services, specific
 systems, or within a specific type of architecture
 for instance, camera input information is passed through some xyz firewalls now when some new person access
 camera data then prev controls stay in place.

TP6: Categorize wrt level of impact of threat on system.

TP7. Strategy for continuously monitoring control effectiveness.
    INPUTS:Risk management strategy,
           risk assessment results,
           security and privacy policies


RMF ALIGNMENT WITH THE SDLC
The best RMF implementation is one that is indistinguishable from the routine SDLC processes
carried out by organizations. That is, RMF tasks are closely aligned with the ongoing activities in
the SDLC processes, ensuring the seamless integration of security and privacy protections into
organizational systems—and taking maximum advantage of the artifacts generated by the SDLC
processes to produce the necessary evidence in authorization packages to facilitate credible,
risk-based decision making by senior leaders in organizations.


CATEGORIZE:
    TC1. Document characteristics of system.
    INPUTS:System design and requirements documentation,
           authorization boundary info, //{firewalls, service/port/protocol} //set of 
           list of security and privacy allocated to system // description of security controls
           system elements, //nodes n stuff
           environment of operation,
           data map of the information life cycle for information types 
           processed, stored, and transmitted by the system
    OUTPUTS: Documented system description.
 System Development Life Cycle Phase: New – Initiation (concept/requirements definition).
 Existing – Operations/Maintenance.

 example: descriptive name of system and its identifier,
          version and release number,
          individual responsible for system,
          purpose,
          how its integrated in enterprise architecture,
          SDLC phase
          authorization boundaries; law(band of radiowaves), directive, policies
          Network topology,
          info types: h/w, s/w and system interfaces,
          information flow,
          Network communication rules for interacting with other system,
          system users: access rights, privilages, citizenship
          maintainance and relative agreements, 
          ownership of system; //proprietory, partnership, LLC, corporation (A corporation is an organization, usually a group of people or a company, authorized to act as a single entity and recognized as such in law.)

    TC2. Security Categorization
        INPUTS: RM strategy, 
                risk tolerance,
                risk assessment results, (threat identification, threat trees, threat asset matrix, LMH bakchodi)
                info types processed, stored and trans
                list of security and privacy requirements allocated to the system
                environment of operation
        OUTPUTS: Impact level determined for each info type and security objective
                 CIA - confidentiality, integrity, availability 
            determine considerable adverse impacts to organization, assets, individual resulting from loss of CIA 

        TC3. SECURITY CATEGORIZATION REVIEW AND APPROVAL
            INPUTS: Identification of above processes
            OUTPUTS: Approval of security CATEGORIZATION

                

SELECT:purpose of the Select step is to select, tailor, and document the controls necessary to protect
       the information system and organization commensurate with risk to organizational operations
        and assets, individuals, other organizacd tions, and the Nation.

        TS1. Select controls for system and environment of operation
            INPUTS: Above points result ie., categorize and preparse step,
                    Cybersecurity Framework Profiles.
            OUTPUTS: selection of controls
            two approaches- a baseline control selection approach, or an organization-generated control 
            selection approach.
            In both the baseline control selection approach and organization-generated control selection approachh
            organizations develop a well-defined set of security and privacy requirements using a life cycle-based
            systems engineering process.
        
       TS2. Tailor the controls selected for the system and the environment of operation.
            INPUTS: All assessed risks and requirements
            OUTPUTS: Control tailoring
        the justification or supporting rationale for scoping decisions related to a high-
        impact system or high value asset

        TS3. Control Allocation 

            OUTPUTS: • Controls are designated as system-specific, hybrid, or common controls.
                     • Controls are allocated to the specific system elements (i.e.,
                       machine, physical, or human elements).
        Not all controls need to be allocated by all system elements
        Controls providing a specific security or privacy capability are only allocated to system elements 
        that require that capability.
        example: system-specific controls associated with management of audit logs may be allocated to a log 
        management server and need not be implemented on every system element

        TS4. Document the controls for the system and environment of operation in security and privacy plans.

            Documentation of planned control implementations allows for traceability of decisions prior to and after
            the deployment of the system. To the extent possible, organizations reference existing documentation
            (either by vendors or other organizations that have employed the same or similar systems or system
            elements), use automated support tools, and coordinate across the organization to reduce redundancy
            and increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of control documentation        
            Also, addresses platform dependencies and includes any additional information necessary to describe how 
            the capability required is to be achieved at the level of detail sufficient to support control implementation and
            assessment.
            In some cases security controls can be implemented in ways that create privacy risks. 
            The privacy program supports documentation of privacy risk considerations and the implementations intended to mitigate them.
            Documenting the process helps to ensure traceability in meeting the security and privacy requirements.

        TS5. CONTINUOUS MONITORING STRATEGY — SYSTEM
                Continuous monitoring strategy for the system including time-based trigger for ongoing authorization
        An important aspect of risk management is the ongoing monitoring of controls implemented
        within or inherited by an information system. An effective continuous monitoring strategy at the system
        level is developed and implemented in coordination with the organizational continuous monitoring
        strategy early in the SDLC (i.e., during initial system design or procurement decision)
        the system-level continuous monitoring strategy identifies the criteria for determining the frequency with which
        controls are monitored post-implementation and the plan for the ongoing assessment of those controls.
        The Privacy Continuous Monitoring (PCM) strategy includes all of the available privacy controls implemented
        ughout the organization at all risk management levels (i.e., organization, mission/business process, and system).
        The strategy ensures that the controls are monitored on an ongoing basis by assigning an organization-defined
        assessment frequency to each control that is sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements
        and to manage privacy risks.

        TS6. Review and approve the security and privacy plans for the system and the environment of
             operation.
         INPUTS: Security and privacy plans; organization- and system-level risk assessment results.
         OUTPUTS: Security and privacy plans approved by the authorizing official.
              TO CHECK  if the plans are complete, consistent, and satisfy the stated security and privacy requirements
              for the system.



IMPLEMENT:
    Purpose is to implement the controls in security and privacy plans for system and to
    document specific details of control implementation.

TI.1 CONTROL IMPLEMENTATION

     OUTPUTS:Controls specified in the security and privacy plans are implemented
             Systems security and privacy engineering methodologies are used to implement the controls in
             the system security and privacy plans.
             in commercial off-the-shelf products, organizations
            consider the use of system elements that have been tested, evaluated, or validated by approved,
            independent, third-party assessment facilities (e.g., NIST Cryptographic Module Validation Program
            Testing Laboratories, National Information Assurance Partnership Common Criteria Testing Laboratories).
            The tests, evaluations, and validations consider products in specific configurations and in isolation; control                implementation addresses how the product is integrated into the system while preserving security
            functionality and assurance

TI.2 UPDATE CONTROL IMPLEMENTATION INFORMATION
      OUTPUTS: Changes to the planned implementation of controls are documented.
               The security and privacy plans are updated based on information
               obtained during the implementation of the controls;
    The updates include revised descriptions of implemented controls including
    changes to planned inputs, expected behavior, and expected outputs with sufficient detail to support
    control assessments. Documenting the “as implemented” control information is essential to providing the
    capability to determine when there are changes to the controls, whether those changes are authorized,
    and the impact of the changes on the security and privacy posture of the system and the organization.



ASSESS:{
    to determine if controls selected for implementation are implemented correctly, operating as intended
    and producing desired outcome wrt meeting security and privacy.

     TA.1 ASSESOR SELECTION
       INPUTS:Security, privacy, and SCRM plan, program management control information, common control                   documentation, security and privacy program plans,
                  system design documentation; enterprise, security, and privacy architecture informaton; 
                  security, privacy, and SCRM policies and procedures applicable to the system.
           OUTPUTS: an assessor or assessment team is selected to conduct control assessments 

     TA.2 ASSESSMENT PLAN
        Develop, review, and approve plans to assess implemented controls.
         INPUTS: As above
         OUTPUTS:Documentation needed to conduct the assessments is provided to the assessor or assessment team.
                  Security and privacy assessment plans are developed and documented.
                  Security and privacy assessment plans are reviewed and
                  approved to establish the expectations for the control assessments and the level of effort required.
                  employ procedures, methods, techniques, tools, and automation to support continuous monitoring and near 
                  real-time risk management; and are cost-effective.
         example:
            developmental testing and evaluation; independent verification and validation; audits, including supply
            chain; assessments supporting system and common control authorization or reauthorization; program           
            management control assessments; continuous monitoring; and assessments conducted after remediation
            actions.

     TA.3 CONTROL ASSESSMENT
       Assess the controls in accordance with the assessment procedures described in assessment plans.
          OUTPUTS:Control assessments are conducted in accordance with the security and privacy assessment plans
                 Opportunities to reuse assessment results from previous assessments to make the risk management
                 process timely and cost-effective are considered.
                 Use of automation to conduct control assessments is maximized to increase speed, effectiveness,
                 and efficiency of assessments.
                 Control assessments occur as early as practicable in the SDLC, preferably during the development phase.
                 Organizations can maximize the use of automation to conduct control assessments to increase the speed,effectiveness,
                 and efficiency of the assessments, and to support continuous monitoring of the security and privacy
                 posture of organizational systems. 

          example: design and code reviews, regression testing, and application scanning.                  
                A recent audit of a system may have produced information about the effectiveness of selected controls. 
                Another opportunity to reuse previous assessment results may come from external programs that test and evaluate security and
                privacy features of commercial information technology products (e.g., Common Criteria Evaluation and
                Validation Program and NIST Cryptographic Module Validation Program,). If prior assessment results from
                the system developer or vendor are available, the control assessor, under appropriate circumstances, may
                incorporate those results into the assessment.
                if a control implementation was assessed during other forms of assessment at previous stages of the 
                SDLC (e.g., unit testing, functional testing,acceptance testing), organizations may consider potential reuse 
                of those results to reduce duplication of efforts

                //SEE APPENDIX F FOR "AUTHORIZATION BAKCHODI"


        TA.4 ASSESSMENT REPORTS
        Security and privacy assessment reports that provide findings and recommendations are completed.
        
 example:
    developmental testing and evaluation; independent verification and
    validation; independent assessments supporting information system or common control authorizations or
    reauthorizations; self-assessments; assessments after remediation actions; independent evaluations or
    audits; and assessments during continuous monitoring.


    TA.5 REMEDIATION ACTIONS:
    To remediate is to correct or make right.
    to address deficiencies in the controls implemented in the system and environment of operation are
    taken.
    Security and privacy plans are updated to reflect control implementation changes made based on the 
    assessments and subsequent remediation actions.
    INPUTS: Completed security and privacy assessment reports with findings and
    recommendations; security and privacy plans; security and privacy assessment plans; organization- and
    System-level risk assessment results.
     The security and privacy assessment reports describe deficiencies in the controls that could
     not be resolved during the development of the system or that are discovered post-development


TA.6 PLAN OF ACTION AND MILESTONES
    Prepare the plan of action and milestones based on the findings and recommendations of the
    assessment reports.
    A plan of action and milestones detailing remediation plans for
    unacceptable risks identified in security and privacy assessment
    reports is developed.

    Inputs: Updated security and privacy assessment reports; updated security and privacy plans;
            organization- and system-level risk assessment results; organizational risk management strategy and risk
            tolerance.
        Risk mitigation resources include, for example, personnel, new hardware or software, and tools.

}

AUTHORIZATION: //appendix F is very very inportant


    TAR.1 AUTH PACKAGE
        INPUTS: Security and privacy plans; security and privacy assessment reports; plan of action and
                Milestones; supporting assessment evidence or other documentation, as required.

    Organizations are encouraged to maximize the use of automated tools in the preparation, assembly, and
    transmission of authorization packages and security and privacy information supporting the authorization process.
    Many commercially available governance, risk, and compliance (GRC) tools can be employed to reduce or eliminate
    hard copy documentation.
    Authorization packages include security and privacy plans, security and privacy assessment
    reports, plans of action and milestones, and an executive summary.

    TAR.2 RISK ANALYSIS AND DETERMINATION
        INPUTS: Upar wala 
        OUTPUTS: A risk determination by the authorizing official that reflects the
                 risk management strategy including risk tolerance, is rendered.
        organizational risk tolerance, dependencies among systems and
        controls, mission and business requirements, the criticality of the missions or business functions
        supported by the system, or the risk management strategy.

    TAR.3 RISK RESPONSE
    Identify and implement a preferred course of action in response to the risk determined.
         Inputs: Authorization package; risk determination; organization- and system-level risk
                 assessment results.
         Outputs: Risk responses for determined risks.

     Some risks may be of greater concern to organizations
     than other risks. In that case, more resources may need to be directed at addressing higher-priority risks
     versus lower-priority risks. Prioritizing risk response does not necessarily mean that the lower-priority
     risks are ignored. Rather, it could mean that fewer resources are directed at addressing the lower-priority
     risks, or that the lower-priority risks are addressed later.
     key part of the risk-based decision process is the recognition that regardless of the risk response,
     There remains a degree of residual risk. Organizations determine acceptable degrees of residual risk 
     based on organizational risk tolerance.

     TAR.4 AUTHORIZATION DECISION
             The authorization for the system or the common controls is
             approved or denied.

     INPUTS: Risk responses for determined risks.

     OUTPUTS: Authorization to operate, authorization to use, common control authorization; denial
     of authorization to operate, denial of authorization to use, denial of common control authorization.

     Organizations are encouraged to employ automated security/privacy management and reporting tools whenever
     feasible, to develop the authorization packages for systems and common controls and to maintain those packages
     during ongoing authorization. Automated tools can significantly reduce documentation costs, provide increased
     speed and efficiency in generating important information for decision makers, and provide more effective means for
     updating critical risk management information. It is recognized that certain controls are not conducive to the use of
     automated tools and therefore, manual methods are acceptable in those situations.
     For systems, the authorization decision indicates to the system owner whether the system is authorized
     to operate or authorized to use, or not authorized to operate or not authorized to use. For common
     controls, the authorization decision indicates to the common control provider and to the system owners
     of inheriting systems, whether the common controls are authorized to be provided or not authorized to

    TAR.5 AUTHORIZATION REPORTING
     Report the authorization decision and any deficiencies in controls that represent significant
     security or privacy risk.
         INPUTS: Authorization decision.
         OUTPUTS: A report indicating the authorization decision for a system or set of common controls;
                annotation of authorization status in the organizational system registry.


MONITOR:
    to maintain an ongoing situational awareness about the security and privacy posture of the information 
    system and the organization in support of risk management decisions.


    TM.1 SYSTEM AND ENVIRONMENT CHANGES
        INPUTS: Organizational continuous monitoring strategy; organizational configuration
        management policy and procedures; organizational policy and procedures for handling unauthorized
        system changes; security and privacy plans; configuration change requests/approvals; system design
        documentation; security and privacy assessment reports; plans of action and milestones; information
        from automated and manual monitoring tools.
        OUTPUTS: Updated security and privacy plans; updated plans of action and milestones; updated
        Security and privacy assessment reports.

Systems and environments of operation are in a constant state of change with changes
occurring in the technology or machine elements, human elements, and physical or environmental
elements. Changes to the technology or machine elements include for example, upgrades to hardware,
software, or firmware; changes to the human elements include for example, staff turnover or a reduction
in force; and modifications to the surrounding physical and environmental elements include for example,
changes in the location of the facility or the physical access controls protecting the facility. Changes made
by external providers can be difficult to detect. A disciplined and structured approach to managing,
controlling, and documenting changes to systems and environments of operation, and adherence with
terms and conditions of the authorization, is an essential element of security and privacy programs.
Organizations establish configuration management and control processes to support configuration and
change management

Common activities within organizations can cause changes to systems or the environments of operation
and can have a significant impact on the security and privacy posture of systems. Examples include
installing or disposing of hardware, making changes to configurations, and installing patches outside of
the established configuration change control process. Unauthorized changes may occur because of
purposeful attacks by adversaries or inadvertent errors by authorized personnel. In addition to adhering
to the established configuration management process, organizations monitor for unauthorized changes to
systems and analyze information about unauthorized changes that have occurred to determine the root
cause of the unauthorized change. In addition to monitoring for unauthorized changes, organizations
continuously monitor systems and environments of operation for any authorized changes that impact the
privacy posture of systems.

example, if
the root cause of an unauthorized change is determined to be an adversarial attack, multiple actions
could be taken such as invoking incident response processes, adjusting intrusion detection and prevention
tools and firewall configurations, or implementing additional or stronger controls to reduce the risk of
future attacks. If the root cause of an unauthorized change is determined to be a failure of staff to adhere
to established configuration management processes, remedial training for certain individuals may be
warranted.

    TM.2 ONGOING ASSESSMENTS
        Ongoing assessments of control effectiveness are conducted in
        accordance with the continuous monitoring strategy.
        Monitor the information system and its environment of operation for changes that impact the
        security and privacy posture of the system.

        To satisfy the annual FISMA security assessment requirement, organizations can use assessment results
from control assessments that occurred during authorization, ongoing authorization, or reauthorization;
during continuous monitoring; or the during testing and evaluation of systems as part of the SDLC or an
audit (provided the assessment results are current, relevant to the determination of control effectiveness,
and obtained by assessors with the required degree of independence).

 TM.3 ONGOING RISK RESPONSE
    The output of continuous monitoring activities is analyzed and
responded to appropriately.

    AUTHORIZATION PACKAGE UPDATES
TM4 Update plans, assessment reports, and plans of action and milestones based on the results of
the continuous monitoring process.
    To achieve near real-time risk management, the organization updates security and privacy
plans, security and privacy assessment reports, and plans of action and milestones on an ongoing basis.
Updates to the plans reflect modifications to controls based on risk mitigation activities carried out by
system owners or common control providers. Updates to control assessment reports reflect additional
assessment activities carried out to determine control effectiveness based on implementation details in
the plans. Plans of action and milestones are updated based on progress made on the current outstanding
items; address security and privacy risks discovered as part of control effectiveness monitoring; and
describe how the system owner or common control provider intends to address those risks. The updated
information raises awareness of the security and privacy posture of the system and the common controls
inherited by the system, thereby, supporting near real-time risk management and the ongoing
authorization process.

    Organizations ensure that information needed for oversight, management, and auditing purposes is not
modified or destroyed when updating security and privacy plans, assessment reports, and plans of action
and milestones. Providing an effective method to track changes to systems through configuration
management procedures is necessary to achieve transparency and traceability in the security and privacy
activities of the organization; to obtain individual accountability for any security or privacy actions; and to
understand emerging trends in the security and privacy programs of the organization.

SECURITY AND PRIVACY REPORTING
Task M-5 Report the security and privacy posture of the system to the authorizing official and other
organizational officials on an ongoing basis in accordance with the organizational continuous
monitoring strategy.
A process is in place to report the security and privacy posture to
the authorizing official and other senior leaders and executives
Security and privacy posture reports are marked, protected, and handled in accordance with federal and
organizational policies. Security and privacy posture reports can be used to satisfy FISMA reporting
requirements for documenting remediation actions for security and privacy weaknesses or deficiencies.
Reporting on security and privacy posture is intended to be ongoing and should not be interpreted as
requiring the time, expense, and formality associated with the information provided for the initial
authorization. Rather, reporting is conducted in a cost-effective manner consistent with achieving the
reporting objectives.

ONGOING AUTHORIZATION
Task M-6 Review the security and privacy posture of the system on an ongoing basis to determine
whether the risk remains acceptable.
Potential Inputs: Risk tolerance; security and privacy posture reports; plans of action and milestones;
organization- and system-level risk assessment results; security and privacy plans.
The risks may change based on the information provided in the security and privacy posture reports
because the reports may indicate changes to the security or privacy risk factors. Determining how
changing conditions affect organizational and individual risk is essential for managing privacy risk and
maintaining adequate security. By carrying out ongoing risk determination and risk acceptance,
authorizing officials can maintain system and common control authorizations over time and transition to
ongoing authorization. Reauthorization actions occur only in accordance with federal or organizational
policies.
The use of automated support tools to capture, organize, quantify, visually display, and maintain security
and privacy posture information promotes near real-time risk management regarding the risk posture of
the organization.

SYSTEM DISPOSAL
    TM.7 Implement a system disposal strategy and execute required actions when a system is removed
        from operation.
    OUTPUTS: Disposal strategy; updated system component inventory; updated security and
privacy plans.
    When a system is removed from operation, several risk management actions are required.
Organizations ensure that controls addressing system disposal are implemented. Examples include media
sanitization; configuration management and control; component authenticity; and record retention.
Organizational tracking and management systems (including inventory systems) are updated to indicate
the system that is being removed from service. Security and privacy posture reports reflect the security
and privacy status of the system. Users and application owners hosted on the disposed system are
notified as appropriate, and any control inheritance relationships are reviewed and assessed for impact.
This task also applies to system elements that are removed from operation. Organizations removing a
system from operation update the inventory of information systems to reflect the removal. System
owners and security personnel ensure that disposed systems comply with relevant federal laws,
regulations, directives, policies, and standards